# Django Views and Templates

## Routing and Views
View are created in `views.py` file which basically handles the incoming request and return appropriate response. but how do we known which view to use for which request. that is dealt by urls.py which selects view based on url

e.g `site.com/app/login` here `app/login` helps determine which view will be used

### Reading the url:
- view withing application (hard coded):
    
    `site.com/app/funky`
- key value parameter (GET):

    `site.com/app/danger?guess=42`
- URL Path parameter: (normally ids e.t.c.)

    `site.com/app/rest/24`

### 3 patterns for views in urls.py

- requests are routed to pre-defined django classes
- requests are routed to functions in views.py that we create. function takes that request as parameter and returns a response
- requests are routed to class in views.py that had seperate methods for get and post and similarly return a response

### inside urls.py

urlpatterns is a global variable (list).

if you just want to return a template without any special processing (pre-defined class from django):
`path('', TemplateView.as_view(template_name='views/main.html'))`

"*app_name/templates/views/main.html*" is actually the path for main.html

using functions from views.py:
`path('about', views.about_us)` or `path('rest/<int:guess>, views.rest)`

uding classes from views.py:
`path('main', views.MainView.as_view())` or `path('remain/<slug:guess>', views.RestView.as_view())`

### inside the views.py

variables are all about request objects (objects of class HttpRequest). Main job of a view is to produce a response.

### Fucntion Based Views
-  **(simple)**:
    ```
    def funky(request):
        response = """ <html> ...
        ...
        """
        return HttpResponse(response)
    ```
    corresponding path is `path('funcky', views.funky)`.

    All the request data is in that parameter. in this case we are doing nothing with the request info. 

- **(key value pair in url)**:
    ```
    def danger(request):
        response = """<html>...
        ...<p>"""+request.GET['guess']+"""</p>...       # GET is a dict
        ...
        """
        return HttpResponse(response)
    ```
    corresponding url could be: `site.com/app/danger?guess=42` and path in urls.py: `path('danger', views.danger)`

    **Cross Site Scripting**: Not so secure method since the info is visible in url and request. Someone can put html or js using these key value pairs in your code for some ill intent maybe

    We should escape it. we have "escape" utility in django that can be used. e.g `escape(request.GET['guess'])`. So instead of putting '<' or '>' it will put `&lt;` or `&gt;`

- **(paramters in urls)**:

    ```
    def rest(request, guess):
        response = """<html>...
        ...<p>"""+escape(guess)+"""</p>...       # GET is a dict
        ...
        """
        return HttpResponse(response)
    ```
    corresponding path could be: `path('rest/<int:guess>', views.rest)`. remember its `<type: variable-name>`

### Class Based Views
- **(simple)**:
    ```
    class MainView(View):   # The as_view function is inherited from View
        def get(self, request):
            response = """ <html> ...
            ......
            """
            return HttpResponse(response)
    ```
    corresponding path will be: `path('main', views.MainView.as_view())`

- **(parameters in url)**:
    ```
    class RestView(View):
        def get(self, request, guess):
            response = """<html>...
            ...<p>"""+escape(guess)+"""</p>...       # GET is a dict
            ...
            """
            return HttpResponse(response)
    ```
    corresponding path will be: `path('remain/<slug:guess>', views.RestView.as_view())`. **slug** is kind of a string

**Extra**:
```
status code 302 means redirect. The site has bee shifted to some other URL.
HttpResponseRedirect('new url') can be used for this purpose
```

## Using Templates in Django

Templates will be mostly html, not necessarily have to.
Two commonly used template engine:
1. DTL
2. Jinja2

Very helpful since we won't have to put html, css and js in our python files.

A dict is sent from views.py and stuff is plugged in html using double curly braces`{{ }}`

lets take one parameter example from class, the slug one but a bit different

**View**:
```
class GameView(View):
    def get(self, request, guess):
        x = { 'guess': int(guess) }
        return render(request, 'app_name/cond.html', x)
```
**HTML**:
```
<body>
    <p>Your Guess was {{ guess }}</p>\
    {% if guess < 42 %}
        <p>Too Low</p>
    {% elif guess > 42 %}
        <p>Too High</p>
    {% else %}
        <p>Too Low</p>
    {% endif %}
</body>
```

### But where to place templates?

if multiple apps have files with same name in templates that can be an issue, so common convention is to just create a directory inside templates with the name of the app and place templates for that app in there. e.g. `/app-1/templates/app-1/file.htm`

It looks redundant but we'll get used to it
