# Structured Query Language

A database that is famous and standard at most of the places/frameworks.

It's a language that we will use to issue commands to our database (sqlite in our case).

Commands like:
- create data
- retrieve
- update
- delete

sqlite is a good database but it cannot handle a lot of requests hitting at the same time.
but while learning its best.

on terminal we can access any database using command like `sqlite3 zip.sqlite3`

## creating a table
example:
```
CREATE TABLE Users (
    id integer NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    name VARCHAR(128),
    email VARCHAR(128)
);
```
here id, name and email are the columns of the table.
integer and varchar(*bytes*) are just data types.
primary key is just a unique identifier.

`.tables` command gives a list of tables in database.

`.schema *table_name*` can be used to look at how table is formed

**extra**:
```
keywords are written in upercase (optional)
```
## Insert

`INSERT INTO Users(name, email) VALUES('john', 'abc@xyz.com)`

VALUES are matched 1-on-1 with column names mentioned before with table name. Just remeber to respect the data type.

## Delete + Where
`DELETE FROM Users WHERE email='abc@xyz.com`

it will remove every instance/row from Users table where email was abc@xyz.com.

## update
`UPDATE Users SET name="doe" WHERE email="abc@xyz.com"`

it wil change the name in the row where email matches.

## Select
`SELECT * FROM Users WHERE email="abc@xyz.com"`

it is simply selectin the all instances with this email, basically data fetch/read.

## Order by
`SELECT * FROM Users ORDER BY email`

pretty straight forward, its just sorting the fetched result.
`DESC` keyword can be added at the end of same query to order in descending order.
