# DJango Data Models

## ORM (Object Relational Mapping)
Allows to map tables to objects and columns. We use those objects to store and retrieve data. Very helpful since its portable across different databases. Basically an abstraction on database.

SQL is easy, django models are easier.

Normally when you jump from development to production you should switch to MySql or Oracle e.t.c.

### Defining a table 

in `models.py` file:
```
from django.db import models

class User(models.Model):
    name = models.CharField(max_length=128)
    email = models.CharField(max_length=128)
```
is equivalent to:
```
CREATE TABLE User(
    name VARCHAR(128),
    email VARCHAR(128)
);
```

When you do migrations it will generate the table in database

`python manage.py makemigrations`:

creating a set of migration scripts

`python manage.py migrate`:

reading and actually changing the database (which ever you are using)

db.sqlite3 is normally made. If we manually check this db our table will start with usermodel e.g usermodel_user

### Inserting a record 
type `python manage.py shell` and press enter, now you are in python shell but django version.

here
```
from usermodel.models import User
u = User(name="john", email="abc@xyz.com")
u.save()
```
is equivalent to:
```
INSERT INTO User(name, email) VALUES("John", "abc@xyz.com")
```
### Checking
If you want to check how this relational mapping is working you can check in django shell by importing `connection` from `django.db` and printing `connection.queries`    

### CRUD in ORM

- create

u = User(nam....)
u.save

- read

User.objects.values() ...{for all, SELECT *}

User.objects.filter(email="some@email.z").values()

- update

User.objects.filter(email="some@email.z").update(name="charles")

- Delete

User.objects.filter(email="some@email.z").delete()

- Sort

User.objects.values().order_by('email')<br>
User.objects.values().order_by('-email') ...[for descending order]

### The graded assesment

First of all adding `'polls'` to the list of INSTALLED_APPS in mysite/mysite/settings.py is a must.

then added two models in `mysite/polls/models.py` ([Code](../codes/polls.models.v1.py))

then added them to admin panel in `mysite/polls/admin.py` ([Code](../codes/polls.admin.v1.py))

then run following commands:

1. `python manage.py makemigrations`
2. `python manage.py migrate`
3. `python manage.py createsuperuser`
    
    here you'll have to give a username, email and password. Make sure to add another user with credentials from dj4e.

Login to `username.pythonanywhere.com/admin` (not through dj4e credentials). make sure that dj4e user have all 3 checkbocks ticked under permissions.

Follow the remaining instructions on dj4e